# Maze Solver

## Project Overview
This project implements various maze solver algorithm in Python. It provides a set of algoirthms to solve maze that generated by Maze Class in the [Random-Maze-Generator](https://github.com/wenxie65/Random-Maze-Generator) repository.

## Repository Contents
- [x] `maze_solver.ipynb`: A Jupyter Notebook that includes tests for each maze solving algorithm.
- [x] `dfs.ipynb`: A Jupyter Notebook that includes the implementation of maze-solving algoirthm using Depth-First Search (DFS).
- [ ] `bfs.ipynb`: A Jupyter Notebook that includes the implementation of maze-solving algoirthm using Breadth-First Search (BFS).
- [ ] `dijkstra.ipynb`: A Jupyter Notebook that includes the implementation of maze-solving algoirthm using Dijkstra's Algorithm.
- [ ] `a_search.ipynb`: A Jupyter Notebook that includes the implementation of maze-solving algoirthm using A* Search Algorithm.
- [ ] `dead_end.ipynb`: A Jupyter Notebook that includes the implementation of maze-solving algoirthm using Dead-End Filling.
- [ ] `flood_fill.ipynb`: A Jupyter Notebook that includes the implementation of maze-solving algoirthm using Flood Fill.

## Algorithms
This project includes the following algorithms for solving mazes:
- [x] Depth-First Search (DFS)
- [ ] Breadth-First Search (BFS)
- [ ] Dijkstra's Algorithm
- [ ] A* Search Algorithm
- [ ] Dead-End Filling
- [ ] Flood Fill

## Dependencies
To run this project, ensure that the `matplotlib` is installed.
To install the package using pip, open a terminal or command prompt and run the following command:
```shell
pip install matplotlib 
```

## Maze Generation
The mazes used in this project are generated using the the [Random-Maze-Generator](https://github.com/wenxie65/Random-Maze-Generator) repository. The generated mazes serve as input for the maze solver algorithms.

Please refer to the specific Jupyter Notebook files for detailed code implementation, usage instruction, and examples.

## Installation
1. Clone Random-Maze-Generator repository to local machine:
```shell
git clone https://github.com/wenxie65/Random-Maze-Generator.git
```
2. Clone Maze_Solver repository to local machine:
```shell
https://github.com/wenxie65/Maze_Solver.git
```
3. Navigate to the project directory:
```shell
cd Maze_Solver
```
4. Run `maze_solver.ipynb`:
```shell
python maze_solver.ipynb
```

## Result
The result of running the `maze_solver.py` script can be found in [result.md](result.md). It provides the performance report for each algorithm and helps identify the most effective algorithm for mazes with various sizes.

To view the result, please refer to the [result.md](result.md) file.
